Update instructions for adding new data nodes (#582)
timescale/docs.timescale.com-content: api.md

---
## add_data_node() [](add_data_node)

> Add a new data node on the access node to be used by distributed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds a new data node on the access node to be used by distributed
```

---
## add_data_node() [](add_data_node)

> Add a new data node to the database to be used by distributed
> hypertables. This function needs to be executed on the access node by
> a superuser or a user with `USAGE` privileges on the `timescaledb_fdw`
> foreign data wrapper (superuser privileges might still be required on
> the data node). It is assumed that the user role adding a data node
> already has a way to authenticate with the data node being
> added. Alternatively, a password can be provided on the command line
> if the data node accepts password-based authentication and no password
> is provided in a local password file on the access node. Please refer
> to [Setting up Multi-Node TimescaleDB][multinode] for more information
> about node-to-node authentication.

Reviewer 2: After reviewing this, this feels like maybe too much in the weeds for the API docs?  Maybe something simpler like:

```suggestion
Add a new data node to the database to be used by distributed
hypertables.   For security purposes, the data node validates the connection
attempt from the access node; TimescaleDB currently supports several 
different such authentication methods for flexibility (including trust, user
mappings, password, and certificate methods).  Please refer
to [Setting up Multi-Node TimescaleDB][multinode] for more information
about node-to-node authentication.
```

Author: I think permissions/superuser requirements should be part of reference docs. This will probably trip people up otherwise. Don't mind shortening in general though.

Newly created distributed hypertables will be able to make use of the
data node for apportioning data across the distributed database. Note
that existing distributed hypertables will not automatically use the
newly added data node. For existing distributed hypertables to use
added data nodes, use [`attach_data_node`](#attach_data_node) after

> having added the data node.

Author: Maybe I am missing something, but I see virtually no overlap with the previous paragraph. This is discussing need for attaching after adding, while the first paragraph talks about requirements for auth and privileges in order to execute add_data_node.

I will still try to streamline the text though.

> having added the data node.

Reviewer: You mention above that a new data node is added to be used by distributed tables, and then here again that newly added data nodes are used by the distribute hypertables. IMHO, the first sentence of the paragraph is redundant.

If the data node already exists, the command will abort with either an
error or a notice depending on the value of `if_not_exists`.

Unless `bootstrap` is false, the function will attempt to bootstrap
the data node by:
1. Creating the database given in `database` that will serve as the
   new data node.
2. Loading the TimescaleDB extension in the new database.
3. Setting metadata to make the data node part of the distributed
   database.

Note that, even if bootstrapping is not requested, the `add_data_node`
command will try to connect to the remote data node in order to verify
that it has a valid configuration and that the necessary database
objects are installed. Distributed user roles are not automatically
created on the new data node, however, and this might require
additional setup on the new data node after it is added. The
[`distributed_exec`](#distributed_exec) procedure can be used to
create additional database objects on the data node after it is added,

> including distributed roles.

Reviewer: I think you need to show an example here.

Author: There's a link to section that provides examples. I don't think it is appropriate to have examples about one function in a section about another function.

Reviewer: Then it might be better to only have a notice that the role needs to exists on the data nodes and then refer to the section about how to make that happen. Right now, you start to talk about something the user needs to do, which suggests that it should finish with an elaboration on how to do that.

| `port`               | Port to use on the remote data node. The default is the PostgreSQL port used by the access node on which the function is executed. |
| `if_not_exists`      | Do not fail if the data node already exists. The default is `FALSE`. |
| `bootstrap`          | Bootstrap the remote data node. The default is `TRUE`. |

> | `password`           | Password for authenticating with the remote data node during bootstrapping or validation. A password only needs to be provided if the data node requires password authentication and a password for the user does not exist in a local password file on the access node. |

Reviewer: What happens if a password is provided by it does not use password authentication?

Author: Nothing, AFAIK. The method of authentication is determined by the data node.

Reviewer: There is a difference between giving an error if the authentication method does not require a password and just ignoring the password if the authentication method does not require the password. If it is just ignored in this case, it is good to mention it here.

Author: I don't see why this is necessary and we generally don't list all error cases for optional parameters. The explanation here is already long.
